[webflow to gatsby] Express session for you production app blog (#190)
supertokens/blog: content/should-you-use-express-session-for-your-production-ap/index.md

---
title: Should you use Express-session for your production app?
date: "2020-05-06"
description: "Being Node’s most popular session management library, express-session has its set of flaws– especially when it comes to security. This article will help you analyse the good and bad parts of it."
cover: "should-you-use-express-session-for-your-production-app.png"
category: "sessions"
author: "Rishabh Poddar"
---

> While being Node’s most popular [session management](https://www.packetlabs.net/posts/session-management/) library, express-session has its set of flaws and weaknesses – especially when it comes to security. This article will analyse the good and bad parts of express-session so that you can make an informed decision for your next app. We will be using a point system where one point will be awarded for performing well on a metric, and one will be deducted for bad performance. At the minimum, we want a positive number at the end of the analysis (and the higher the number is, the better). Here are the metrics we will be using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While being Node’s most popular session management library, [express-session]((https://www.npmjs.com/package/express-session)) has its set of flaws and weaknesses – especially when it comes to security. This article will analyse the good and bad parts of express-session so that you can make an informed decision for your next app. We will be using a point system where one point will be awarded for performing well on a metric, and one will be deducted for bad performance. At the minimum, we want a positive number at the end of the analysis (and the higher the number is, the better). Here are the metrics we will be using:
```

<span style="color: red;">**Score: -3**</span>

## Conclusion:

Express-session is a popular, widely used library. It is basic, functional and quick to setup – and for many applications, this is good enough. However, it seriously lacks in other important aspects. For many applications, security is rightfully an important consideration and express-session is far too basic. Aside from security, it lacks functionality and does not adequately consider race conditions. These factors become important as your app starts to scale.

After speaking to 100+ companies, we observed that close to 75% of startups and enterprises end up building a custom solution to manage user sessions. Many do it for the reasons highlighted above.

With a negative final score, it’s clear that Express-session is not optimal for production apps – especially ones that care about user security and will likely scale with time. If you feel that I have judged unfairly, or missed out an important metric, please do comment or send us an [email](mailto:team@supertokens.com).

> There are many alternatives to Express-session and it is likely that you are considering building a custom solution. However, as an alternative to Express-session, we have built a secure, open source and feature complete solution called [SuperTokens](https://supertokens.com/). It is already being used by 100s of developers all. We’d love to hear your feedback on whether this is something you would use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many alternatives to Express-session and it is likely that you are considering building a custom solution. However, as an alternative to Express-session, we have built a secure, open source, and feature complete solution called [SuperTokens](https://supertokens.com/). It is already being used by 100s of developers. We’d love to hear your feedback on whether this is something you would use.
```
